# Software Design

This document describes the functional and component design for this project. Our objective is to create a web-based tool that will allow users to search a large (~3.8 GB) database of Scratch programs and to learn more about computational features found in popular Scratch programs. The full Scratch database is located [here](https://github.com/TUDelftScratchLab/ScratchDataset).

## About Scratch and our data source
Scratch is a block-based visual programming language. It was created by the MIT Media Lab to introduce children aged 8-16 to the concepts and logic of coding. The Scratch website is located [here](https://scratch.mit.edu).

In 2016, a group of researchers scraped the Scratch project repository and stored the information in a database located in [this github repository](https://github.com/TUDelftScratchLab/ScratchDataset). 
Over 250,000 projects were scraped, resulting in a database of size approximately 3.8 GB.
Additional information about the scraped dataset can be found in this paper [here](https://www.computer.org/csdl/pds/api/csdl/proceedings/download-article/12OmNzUPptD/pdf).

In this analysis, we filter the full database to keep only projects with standard blocks, leaving over 233,000 projects for use. 

## Functional design

This section will describe the use cases that motivate the design of this tool. 

### Use case 1: Search Scratch project database to locate sample projects
The user may be a Scratch user or a CS teacher looking for examples of specific kinds of Scratch projects, for personal or classroom use. However, it is time consuming to search through the database for individual projects and assess each one to find projects suitable for their needs. The user has some basic programming knowledge but would prefer to search through the database using a more intuitive, user-friendly interface. 

Our goal is to provide a simple search function to locate potential projects that fits the user's needs.
- User input: search metric (e.g. total blocks, block types)
- Outputs: project that includes the search criteria (embedded in page), project source code (url that the user can click on)
- User is able to click on a URL to see the project source code
- User is able to view the next best project by clicking a button

### Use case 2: Model relationships between computational features and social metrics
The user may be a researcher who is trying to understand the kind of computational thinking generated by popular Scratch projects. However, the database is too large to be opened in Excel, and the user has little to no experience using tools like Python to examine the data. The user is interested in seeing which features are important in popular Scratch projects. 

Our goal is to analyze the data and return the results to the user in an interactive, easy to understand format.
- Inputs: user choice of of popularity social metrics (total remixes, total views, total favorites, total loves)
- Output: plot of top features in popular projects, with feature importance displayed in plot 
- When user hovers over plot, more information about the model results is displayed


## Component design

This section describes the components required for the above use cases.

### Component 1: Project search function
- Get user choice of search criteria
    - total blocks, total remixes, total views, total favorites, total loves, block types [allow user to choose from list of top block types], abstraction, parallelism, logic, synchronization, flow control, user interactivity, data representation, mastery
    - The metrics are described in more detail [here](https://www.computer.org/csdl/pds/api/csdl/proceedings/download-article/12OmNzUPptD/pdf) 
- Search through database to find projects containing search criteria
- Display project in page, and allow user to view the project without needing to use a separate browser
- Display URL for project's source code
- On user click, load the next Scratch project 

### Component 2: random forest regression
- Get user choice of popularity metric predictor 
- Pull all Scratch features into a pandas array
- Run regression model, specified according to user choices of popularity variables
- Display plot(s) of model-predicted values

### Component 3: dashboard `(dash)`
- Combines results from search function and random forest regression in one location
- Each component is on a separate page
- One page allows user to search through the database for sample projects
- Second page allows user to see which features are important in popular projects
